There was another meeting about the bedpan. 

Aaron never got an invitation. He probably should have been there as the lead product manager on the newest model, but nobody said anything to him about it, and it wasn’t on his calendar, so he had no reason to be anywhere else but his desk. What he was looking for was in a private code repository in the company’s enterprise cloud, so he made a local copy of it, called it something different, changed a few lines of code to remove the original developers’ footprints, and then put it on a flash drive. 

BrainWeave was now in the possession of Aaron Andrew Baxter and nobody knew otherwise.

Back when Movies were what people watched when they had attention spans for extra-long-form entertainment, there was a trope about data heists, in which a seemingly simple task of stealing a few files from a hard drive had to be done in a coincidentally short about of time. Usually, the bad guy or security guard who would have otherwise caught the good guy is walking back to the area in which theft was being committed to build tension. Some kind of suspenseful music playing, something by Hans Zimmer or some Ennio Morricone joint if it’s a throwback, also to build tension. Usually there would be an abrupt cut of the music as the bad guy arrives. You’d then witness a casual conversation between good and evil.

Sure enough, thirty seconds later the good guy would flash his hard drive at the camera, in case you were concerned he didn’t make it out with the files.

In Aaron’s case it wasn’t nearly this dramatic. In fact, the sheer number of obvious security holes in Aceso Interactive’s IT infrastructure was baffling. Nobody was hunting him down. Nobody even really suspected because they cared more about the bedpan than an esoteric brain wave scanning framework that hadn’t been touched in fifteen years. The patent had expired two years prior and Legal was still drowning in paperwork from the lawsuit with the VA hospital in Des Moines. *Jesus, even that was about the bedpan*, Aaron would recall years later.

All part of a normal day’s work. His tiny covert act didn’t even show up in code reviews, because he didn’t check in any code. He wasn’t supposed to as a product manager; his entire job was to make sure everyone on his team knew the goals of the newest version of the bedpan and to ensure they could build and market it. Talking, writing, babysitting. As the lead, he administered most of his team’s daily operations: morning check-ins, project plans, who had permissions to do what. He knew nothing about how to code software, but he could give himself permission to code software.

So he did. In a clever move Aceso’s code policies seemed to gloss over, Aaron just copied the BrainWeave parent folder to his own USB flash drive outside the system. He opted to preserve the original file repository to avoid suspicion: Aaron contributed to the BrainWeave repository occasionally for months prior to his data heist to test whether anyone would notice his changes and to ward off suspicion that he suddenly did something to a codebase not touched in years. 

Nobody else touched the repo. Nobody commented on his act because there was nothing to review. His changes appeared to the unsuspecting eye to be little more than browsing some of the company’s past work out of boredom. Nobody across the entire three-hundred-forty-person Engineering department seemed to care what he was doing. He even considered emailing the whole repo to himself to avoid the whole suspicious flash drive thing, but HR might have picked up on that when scanning his records for an exit interview.

Aaron wanted out. Not of the tech, not of this particular position, but out of central California. He sought to ease the pain of his realization that the best ideas eventually settle in the most cutthroat places in America, places that are somehow both so breathtaking and awful at the same time, and then those ideas get leeched to death. The realization that Silicon Valley is a valley of leeches, housed in concrete monoliths that somehow also act like leeches upon their inhabitants. Aceso Interactive made a business out of sucking dry its talent, just like he watched Google and Amazon and Facebook and all the others do. hey happened to take an interest in technologies related to the human body. They started their work in this field with BrainWeave — a legitimately good idea for an improvement of the human brain — and then sucked its creators dry.

Aaron used to amuse himself thinking about how those businesses thought about themselves. About how the CEO, the CTO, the chief whatever-else office, all the directors, middle management at pretty much any Amazon competitor thought about their goals: to survive another month to pay out their subordinates, to “win,” to “survive the competition” disguised as “providing value to customers.” Value in the form of more cheap shit delivered to your home faster. More, cheaper, faster.

Aceso’s original deal was technology to help humans with issues related to the brain’s connectivity to the rest of the body. Its founding team built a sound proof-of-concept that stored theta and gamma brain waves, analyzed them, and then sent them back toward the brain for interpretation. Theoretically it could function as a source of truth to an otherwise unreliable memory, but the science was sketchy, so was the technology itself, and — naturally, as scientists habitually do — they fumbled how to talk about their technological marvel. So, Aceso decided to pivot to basic medical supplies and equipment in an effort to survive its own competition.

And then they thrived with the success of an extremely popular smartphone-connected bedpan. It measured seven different qualities of one’s shit, and assigns the given shit a score. The score is called the Bristol stool score, which is named after an infirmary in Bristol in the UK that studied shit, amongst other things. It gave doctors precious extra seconds in their days and saving hospices dollars all over the United States. Other than that a handful of lawsuits filed by nurses who missed their shit notifications and , it performed pretty well in Middle America and Texas in terms of profits these days. Aaron questioned how it benefitted the patients who were old and/or dying.

Several years later, Aaron would sigh of gratitude that he was able to leave that job. That his girlfriend, Talia, could work from anywhere and thus travel anywhere with him. That his parents had kept their dilapidated lake cottage in the woods in New Hampshire, that they wouldn’t mind him and Talia moving into said cottage. That he had toiled long enough for his Aceso stock to fully vest, off which he and Talia could live comfortably.

And so Aaron settled. And then from BrainWeave he started work on something bigger.